[ Music ]
>> Mike Adams: Welcome
to Secrets
to Health with Mike and Ed.
I'm Mike Adams of
NaturalNews.com.
>> Dr. Edward Group:
And I'm Ed Group
with GlobalHealingCenter.com.
>> Mike: And today's episode,
as you may have already noticed,
is your pet health makeover.
We're going to talk about pet
foods and pet care products
and alternatives that are safer
than what you normally buy
at a store or are
offered by a veterinarian.
>> Dr. Group: Yeah,
what's happened, Mike,
and I'm sure you get the
same questions all the time,
is we have pets these days
that are getting cancer.
We have pets getting arthritis,
pets that are getting
worms inside of them.
What has transpired?
What has happened?
What's happened is the pets
are eating the same stuff
that we're eating.
And the pets are coming
down with the same diseases
that we're eating and
many people are asking us,
what can we do for
our pet's health?
People are scared.
They don't know, you
know, pets are so small.
They don't know how much of
things they can give their pets.
They really don't.
>> Mike: Yeah.
>> Dr. Group: The veterinarians
they're going to are just as bad
as the medical doctors
that we go
to because they're
not being not taught.
And the pets are being
prescribed the same thing
that we're being prescribed.
>> Mike: This is
an important point.
Let's even lead off with this.
The veterinarian
industry has been taken
over by the pharmaceutical
companies
and by the pet food
manufacturers,
just like, sort of, human
food factories
and human pharmaceutical
companies making products
for humans.
The thing is that veterinarians
are now dispensing more
and more drugs.
They are giving pets
food that's made
with grains rather
than actual meats.
And pets are now getting these
diseases such as diabetes
and obesity and cancer at rates
that now mimic what
human beings are getting.
So we see this -- we see that
big pharma really has taken
over the veterinarian industry.
And that's causing a
lot of damage to pets.
>> Dr. Group: Well, it's a
money game, too, you know?
I mean, you have over
50 percent of the dogs
and cats these days are obese.
You have people feeding
them the wrong foods.
Again, you have all
the same conditions
that are going on in humans.
And you know, I'm a pet
lover and you're a pet lover.
You have dogs.
I have a dog.
And I make sure that my dog
is fed very nutritious things.
And I use all natural
products with my dogs.
If you have dogs and
cats, remember that dogs
and cats are carnivorous pets.
They have a pipe-like
digestive system.
They have hydrochloric acid in
their mouth that they secrete.
They are meant to eat
raw meat in nature,
in their natural setting.
>> Mike: Yes.
>> Dr. Group: Dogs
come from wolves,
and cats are feline, you know?
So I mean, they're hunters.
They go out, they
actually kill their food.
And it's living animals
which they kill.
I mean, every now and then, you
know, they have the sense --
>> Mike: They'll drag home a rat
or a raccoon, in
my case sometimes.
>> Dr. Group: Yeah, exactly.
But you know, they also have the
sense to go eat certain herbs
and certain plants
from time to time, too,
to help them deworm
naturally and everything.
So that's what we're going
to share with you today.
>> Mike: Yeah.
That's a really good point.
You know, even though
we're going
to show you packaged foods here,
what we are really advocates
of bones and raw food also.
There's a movement about, you
know, raw food, raw bones.
And also keep in mind --
here's something else that
people don't talk about much.
Cats and dogs are both innately
designed to be awake at night
and asleep during the day.
So when you try to force your
dog to fit your human schedule,
to be awake during the
day and asleep at night,
that is the opposite of what
they are biologically designed
to do.
I mean, look coyotes.
When do coyotes come out?
At night. When do
wolves come out?
At night. When do cats hunt?
At night. They are night
creatures, not day creatures.
So they're not lazy when
they're sleeping all day.
They're actually in tune with
their own natural biorhythms.
>> Dr. Group: That's right.
That's a good point
that you make.
And, you know, that's
something you should take
into consideration, you know?
Don't spoil your pet.
Let them get enough sleep.
But talking about food.
That's the number one thing that
we're going to talk about today.
And if you compare, Mike
and I want to just compare
like a real toxic type of food
with a natural type of food.
And we're going to
start with dry foods.
I actually picked this up
at a convenience store.
Now this is a lot of
food for about $4.59.
But believe it or not,
most people can't
afford good pet food,
so this is what they
feed their pet.
And this is what they feed all
of their dogs and
cats and stuff.
And you know what?
Just one other thing
that was kind of shocking
to me was the fact that there
was a study done not too long
ago, and 70 percent
of the people interviewed said
they would spend more money
on their pet's health
than their own health.
>> Mike: I'm not
surprised to hear that.
Now, speaking of
money, this is a Castor
and Pollux Natural
Ultramix pet food.
It's -- I believe it's
certified organic.
I'd have to check on that.
But it has a lot more natural
and organic ingredients.
I think this costs about
maybe $12 versus the $5 there
for maybe a similar amount.
>> Dr. Group: So it's
kind of comparative --
>> Mike: It's about
double price.
>> Dr. Group: -- with,
you know, organic food,
which is non-organic
food in humans.
>> Mike: Exactly.
Let's go ingredient by
ingredient.
What's your first ingredient?
>> Dr. Group: My first
ingredient is ground whole corn.
>> Mike: Corn!
>> Dr. Group: GMO corn.
Now, I don't know what dog
was raised on ground corn,
but that's the first
ingredient in this one.
>> Mike: I've never seen a
dog in a field chasing corn.
That's never happened.
Now the first ingredient
here is deboned beef.
So it's beef.
There you are.
>> Dr. Group: Okay.
Well, you know, I don't
know if it's organic or not.
>> Mike: It's not organic.
>> Dr. Group: But still, it's
better than whole ground corn.
>> Mike: Yeah.
>> Dr. Group: The next
is meat and bone meal.
Now, for people who don't know
what meat and bone meal is,
with the USDA slaughterhouses,
that's a conglomerate
of all the heads, the hooves,
the intestines, the organs.
Anything that's rejected
and toxic gets all
mixed in together.
And the pork gets
mixed in with the beef,
the chicken all that stuff.
And it gets ground into a
meal and then dehydrated.
>> Mike: Wow.
>> Dr. Group: And that's part
of this what your
dog or cat is eating.
>> Mike: Whatever they
can't extract is pink slime,
in other words.
>> Dr. Group: Exactly.
>> Mike: Okay.
The second ingredient
here is pork meal.
>> Dr. Group: Okay.
And mine is soybean meal.
So we have two of the most
damaging genetically modified
products in the first
three ingredients in mine.
>> Mike: All right, third
ingredient here is barley,
which is actually very
healthy for dogs in a,
you know, small percentage.
You wouldn't want to feed
them 100 percent barley,
but it's a good ingredient.
>> Dr. Group: And my
next one is animal fat.
But not only animal fat,
it's actually animal
fat preserved with BHA.
Which is a toxic preservative.
>> Mike: That's your
first chemical, yeah.
>> Dr. Group: Yeah.
>> Mike: All right, fourth
ingredient here is salmon meal.
Salmon.
>> Dr. Group: And
mine is gluten meal.
>> Mike: Ew!
>> Dr. Group: Which we've talked
about on your shows
how damaging gluten is
to the digestive tract.
>> Mike: Gluten!
Dogs would have a terrible time
with gluten and corn and soy.
>> Dr. Group: I mean, exactly.
What -- I mean, that's --
>> Mike: It's unbelievable.
>> Dr. Group: this dog is
going to be
in the veterinary
office all the time
because the BT toxin alone
is going to burn holes
through the dog's
intestinal lining.
>> Mike: And plus then they're
going to have skin issues
because they have
intestinal issues
because of those ingredients.
And you know, itchiness
and rashes and allergies.
A lot of dogs have
chemical sensitivities now
because of the foods
that they're eating.
We're not going to go
through the whole list, folks.
But just let me name the next
three ingredients here: Peas,
brown rice and sweet potato.
All healthy things for pets.
What have you got?
>> Dr. Group: Yeah, I'll
just read a few here, too.
Wheat meal run, corn distiller's
dried grains, corn gluten meal,
animal digest -- you know,
I don't know what
animal digest is.
>> Mike: Animal digest!
>> Dr. Group: Salt,
ground whole wheat.
>> Mike: Sounds like a
magazine about animals.
>> Dr. Group: Vegetable
oil, caramel color
and we have yellow number
5 again, yellow number 6,
red number 40, blue number 2.
And those are proven carcinogens
and cancer-causing agents --
>> Mike: Crazy.
>> Dr. Group: -- for
human consumption,
approved for human consumption.
>> Mike: Now this
has a preservative,
but the preservative is rosemary
extract, which is really great
for preserving all
kinds of foods.
The cheap food has
chemical preservatives.
>> Dr. Group: Well, I mean,
you know, I don't even know
if a mouse or anything would
even eat this because there's
so many chemicals in it.
It's just probably
naturally preserved, but yes,
it has chemicals in it.
>> Mike: Like formaldehyde?
>> Dr. Group: Yeah, it
wouldn't surprise me.
But --
>> Mike: Well, you mentioned
the BH -- what is it?
>> Dr. Group: Yeah,
I mentioned the BHA.
It's got calcium carbonate in
it and it's got zinc sulfate,
ferrous sulfate, and just a slew
of other synthetic nutrients.
See, what they do, and they
do this in human food, too,
when they enrich things.
>> Mike: Yeah.
>> Dr. Group: And look at this,
it's field trial oral care
it's even got in there.
>> Mike: Field trial?
>> Dr. Group: And --
>> Mike: Like it's
an experiment?
>> Dr. Group: Like
it's an experiment.
>> Mike: It's a clinical trial.
You have to mail in the results
that you dog experiences?
>> Dr. Group: And the sad
thing is the mislabeling
of this stuff.
I mean, look at this.
Complete nutrition.
100 percent complete
and balanced nutrition
for health and wellness.
There's nothing about
health and wellness in this.
This is disease and death.
>> Mike: It's crazy.
Whereas this product
says no corn and no soy.
So they actually do make a
point to avoid those two grains.
I would say just as a general
rule for everybody watching,
if you're shopping for
pet food, avoid pet food
that contains corn and soy,
including soybean
oil, by the way.
>> Dr. Group: Yes.
And look at this.
It even says premium dog food.
>> Mike: Premium [laughs].
>> Dr. Group: So anyway.
And you know, it's the
same for cats, too.
You want to just make sure
that you look at that.
And this is a makeover show.
So the first thing is --
>> Mike: Okay.
>> Dr. Group: -- replace your
dog food or your cat food
with healthy, natural
replacements.
And I just want to show
you guys one more thing,
because I took the
time to really research
and find what the
best dog foods are.
And this is one that we
found, Dogs for the Earth.
And the people that do this
really take their time.
And this has no corn, no
soy, no junk, no grain.
It's all organic meat.
She mixes it all herself
and then she dehydrates
it into patties.
>> Mike: Wow.
>> Dr. Group: And
it's incredible.
And it's great.
It even has kelp
powder for iodine.
>> Mike: Yeah.
>> Dr. Group: And
parsley in it as well.
So that's something you
might want to check out.
>> Mike: For your dog's
breath, parsley there.
Okay, so, now let's
talk about dog treats.
Because the FDA has
actually been mystified
by I think 600 dogs and
cats have been killed now
by pet treats that
are made in China.
And the FDA -- I actually wrote
about this on Natural News.
But the FDA has tested these
pet treats for heavy metals,
for BPA, for melamine,
which sometimes is found
in foods from China.
They've tested the pet treats
and they can't find
what's killing the dogs.
It has sickened thousands
of animals.
And again, killed 600.
So what I have here,
and by the way,
I'm not blaming this
particular brand.
This brand may be
perfectly safe,
but the reason I
chose this brand is
because on the back it shows
that it's made in China.
So any time that you're
buying pet treats,
these are called Munchy
Sticks, chicken in the middle.
You know, Dingo brand.
Any time you're buying pet
treats, avoid pet treats
that are made in
China, in my opinion.
Again, this brand may
be perfectly safe.
We don't know.
We haven't tested it.
But the treats that
are killing animals
that the FDA has issued a
warning about are treats
that are made in China.
>> Dr. Group: What are the
ingredients in there, anyway?
>> Mike: Oh, yeah, check it out.
>> Dr. Group: We have
rawhide, chicken, pork, water,
corn sugar, salt,
potassium sorbate,
which is a preservative, and
F, D and C red number 40.
>> Mike: And all of these
are sourced from China.
>> Dr. Group: And they're
sourced from China, exactly.
>> Mike: So it's China pork.
>> Dr. Group: Yeah.
>> Mike: Which is fed
China GMOs and China soy,
which is loaded heavy metals
because China's so polluted.
>> Dr. Group: That's why
so many pets are sick
and lethargic all the time.
>> Mike: Oh, man.
It's terrible.
>> Dr. Group: You
know, you know,
they have crampings, you know.
They have digestive problems,
they have thyroid issues.
And we'll talk a little
bit about that later.
But some healthy natural
snacks, because everybody loves
to give their pets
snacks all the time.
These are some that
you brought today
that you could show
us that are healthy.
>> Mike: Yes.
Here's one that is
USDA certified organic.
This is a Castor and
Pollux Company once again.
And this is organic dog cookie.
A peanut butter-flavored
cookie that's wheat free.
And guess what the first
ingredient here is?
Organic chicken.
And after that is organic
peas and organic brown rice,
organic oats and so on.
So this is a nice healthy snack
that you can give your dogs.
And see, made in the USA.
That's something else
to really look for.
Now for those of
you who don't want
to feed your dog meat all the
time, you can do something
like this, a sweet
potato dog chew.
Sometimes dogs, especially
puppies, they just want
to chew on something, right?
You know, I've got a lot
of dogs and I love them.
And when they're young,
you know, they'll chew
on paint rollers and they'll
chew on, you know, door mats
and they'll chew on shoes
and boots and whatever.
So you just want to give
them something to chew on.
This is safe.
This is made in America.
It's called Sam's Yams.
It's just sweet potato
that's dried.
And, you know, it's a fun
treat for a dog chew on.
What's the ingredient,
uh, sweet potato.
That's it.
That's all there is to it.
Very simple.
>> Dr. Group: You know,
it's the simple foods
that are always the best.
Whenever you start having this
slew of chemicals in there is
when it starts getting
more toxic and more toxic.
It's hard for the human and
the pet to digest or to break
down multiple things at once
because you secrete
different enzymes for meats
and different enzymes for like
sweet potatoes or for grasses
or anything like that.
So when you add all that
together, it's a lot harder.
And sometimes those meats
can turn putrefactive.
The fats can turn rancid.
And the carbohydrates
can end up fermenting.
And when that happens, it
just adds more chemicals
to the system.
You have to think,
what is this animal
or what do we eat in nature?
>> Mike: Right.
>> Dr. Group: You know,
what is the animal going
to eat in nature?
Do you think the animal's going
to go dig up a sweet potato
or dig up -- they
might by itself.
But do you think they're going
to have a big meal all at once
with a bunch of artificial dyes
and preservatives and sugar?
When's an animal ever going to
get refined sugar in their diet?
>> Mike: No, or refined
petroleum byproducts.
>> Dr. Group: I know.
>> Mike: And we don't
see drinking,
you know, crude oil, right?
>> Dr. Group: Exactly.
>> Mike: That's not
going to happen.
>> Dr. Group: This is one
that I like, Mike, right here.
And I have a little puppy.
And it's in chewing
mode right now.
And I'm having all
my stuff chewed up.
And this is 100 percent
pure organic chicken treats.
And they're dehydrated, you
know, so you can throw them
in your suitcase if you
want to go somewhere.
And my dog loves these.
And they also make
them for cats, too.
So another good --
>> Mike: It's just like a
dehydrated chicken breast
or something like that.
>> Dr. Group: Exactly.
>> Mike: Yeah.
>> Dr. Group: Yeah, exactly.
>> Mike: Pretty healthy.
Here's another natural
organic treat
for dogs, Five-Star Blueberry.
Also grain free, USDA
organic and no wheat,
no corn, no soy, no GMOs.
I really like to see this on
the package, Ed, because more
and more companies
whether it's pet food
or people food are paying
attention to the GMO factor.
And they're putting the
labels on their products.
We talked about the non-GMO
project verified before.
And by the way, I think
the next wave of awareness
on this is going to
be what is the level
of heavy metals in the food.
I think a year from now a lot
of companies will be claiming
things like low heavy metals,
you know, verified or certified.
Some kind of low heavy metals.
Because that's the one thing
that a lot of people don't know.
It's not listed on the label,
but it's a very important factor
for your pet's health and
also for your own health.
>> Dr. Group: Yeah, those
are things that don't have
to be listed on the label.
And some of the most
damaging things.
I mean, you look at the
high levels of arsenic,
especially coming from China.
>> Mike: Yeah in chicken.
>> Dr. Group: I don't
know of anybody,
really that's been testing
dog products out there
for heavy metal contamination.
I mean, there's no
regulations on that.
There could be high
levels of cadmium.
>> Mike: Exactly.
>> Dr. Group: Lead, you know?
Most of the stuff anyway that
comes from China has lead in it.
>> Mike: This is
a critical point.
The FDA, following
its announcement
that these pet treats
were killing so many dogs,
they announced that they were
for the first time
initiating new regulations
that would require pet
food manufacturers,
for the first time ever,
to abide by basic
fundamental safety regulations.
Now you might think, well gee,
hasn't that been in
place before now?
The answer is no.
That a pet food manufacturer
can use anything in a product
with no testing whatsoever.
That's bizarre, but that
also explains why pet food is
so dangerous.
I'm talking about
the cheap pet food.
And there is high-end pet
food and low-end pet food just
like there's high-end,
you know, people food
and low-end people food.
But the low-end stuff I have no
doubt, is killing animals all
across America and around
the world right now.
>> Dr. Group: We know how
much people love their pets,
and that's why we're
here to try to help you
out because the sad thing
is, pets, by the time they're
about two years old are on
the same pharmaceutical agents
as humans are because their
health is deteriorating.
And it happens a
lot faster in pets.
You know, seven years is how old
in human health to human age
to a one-year-old
dog or whatever.
So what we want to do is prevent
all those health conditions
from happening with your pet
and utilize natural
replacements instead.
>> Mike: Yeah, in fact,
the biggest growth area
of Prozac prescriptions
is in pets.
>> Dr. Group: And what about
vaccines and everything.
Are they doing flu
shots in pets yet?
>> Mike: Oh, they're doing --
yeah, let's talk about
the vaccine issue
for just a moment here.
Because I have a big
issue, a big disagreement
with veterinarians on vaccines.
The theory of vaccination says
that your immune system needs a
rehearsal, needs to be exposed
to these weakened virus
fragments, viral fragments, RNA,
in order for your immune
system to recognize those
and then create antibodies,
which you have for life, right?
That's why you only get
chicken pox once, normally.
Then you're immune to
it for life, right?
Well, why do they give your
dog a vaccine this year
and then next year they tell
you you've got to come back in
and get the same vaccine
over and over and over again?
It's nothing more than
marketing propaganda, folks.
Your dogs do not need
to be re-vaccinated
with the same vaccines
year after year after year.
This is killing animals
all across America.
It is not helping their health.
What it's doing is creating
revenues for the veterinarians
to get your pets back
into their office
where they can sell you
more heartworm medication,
which is also toxic, and
they can find other diseases,
they can sell you Prozac drugs,
they can make money off
the vaccine booster shots
that they're trying to
get you to do every year.
That's what the vaccines
are really all about.
>> Dr. Group: It's big business.
And I mean, who knows, you know,
the amount of mercury that's
contained in vaccines.
And they're giving dogs
human doses of vaccines.
It's incredible.
I mean, these poor dogs
are just sick all the time.
So, you know, what I
used to do for my dog,
and I never put my dog on
any heartworm medications.
What I use is a product
called diatomaceous earth.
All I did was -- it's a
great natural de-wormer.
And people have used
it for livestock for,
you know, turn of the century.
I mean, it's been
around forever.
>> Mike: Oh, yeah.
>> Dr. Group: And
what it does --
>> Mike: you're talking about
eating it.
>> Dr. Group: Eating it.
I just put a little bit on
their food and then they eat it.
Or you could use a --
you can use wormwood.
You know, I use this
product right here
and it has wormwood in it.
It has black walnut hull in it.
It has natural de-wormers in
it, which are completely safe.
It's got some clove bud in it.
And just put a little bit
of that in your pet's food.
And it's all organic.
It's natural.
It's a nat -- it's just as if
your pet is in nature and went
and found a little bit
of wormwood and ate it.
Or went and found, you know,
a black walnut and, you know,
chewed on it a little bit
or something like that.
And they get the
natural de-wormers
that they have inside
their system.
>> Mike: You know, let's talk
about de-worming for a minute.
Because I think this
is another huge scam
that needs to be exposed.
Now, it is true that your
animals can get heartworms
from mosquito bites,
for example.
But the industry tries to
sell you these products
like Heartgard or
other little chews
that contain a pharmaceutical
chemical called Ivermectin.
And this chemical blocks
the reproductive cycle
of the heartworms, that's true.
However, they sell you
these treats for as much
as $5, $6, $7 dollars each.
So -- and they try to sell
you one year's supply,
you know, for $70 or something.
In truth, if you
go onto Amazon.com
or a local feed store,
you can buy 50 milliliters
of an Ivermectin solution that's
sold for cattle and sheep.
And you can take the
proper dosage of that
with a simple syringe and put it
in your dog's food once a month,
if you wanted to use that drug.
You can do it for 50
cents instead of $5.
You could save 90 percent
of your expenditures.
That's another example where
it's a huge profit margin.
The vets are making
money on the product.
The drug companies are
making money on the product.
The consumer is getting screwed.
You don't need to
spend that money.
There are other ways to do it.
Or you could avoid
Ivermectin all together
and do what Ed's talking
about, black walnut extract.
Wormwood is another great one.
And finally, here's one here,
too, brewer's yeast with garlic.
I have my pets on this
product right here,
which is just brewer's
yeast, garlic extract
and zinc oxide mixed
together in little tablets.
Mix it with their food.
Now I know people say that
you can't feed dogs garlic.
It's bad for them, right?
Not really.
Onions are bad for your dog.
But garlic in these
small amounts,
it can be well-tolerated
and it has many benefits,
including preventing ticks
and fleas at the same time.
>> Dr. Group: Yeah, and you have
a toxic flea collar over here.
>> Mike: Yes.
>> Dr. Group: And a
tick collar over here.
And this is another thing
that you're just
putting toxic chem --
your pet is actually
wearing this for 120 days.
>> Mike: Crazy.
>> Dr. Group: And it's going --
pet skin is very
extremely sensitive.
More sensitive than human skin.
So your pet will
literally absorb this
into their bloodstream
as long as they wear it.
And there are some good
remedies online for natural tick
and flea support that you can
use that I highly recommend.
>> Mike: Now DE --
let me talk about that
and share some experience
on my ranch here in Texas.
The essential oils that
you put on a cloth collar,
just have a cloth collar,
those in my experience did
not work by themselves.
But when I mix essential
oils with DE
and I created an activated DE
powder with lemon grass oil
and clove oil and some other
things, then you sort of --
you put in a bottle and you
kind of powder that on your dog
and kind of rub on their fur.
That worked really well.
And it's totally
non-toxic, you know?
You can pet your pet.
Your children can
be around your pets.
They can, you know, swim in a
pond and not poison the fish,
which is, you know, you don't
want this getting into a pond.
It might be toxic to fish.
So that's another
solution that really works.
>> Dr. Group: You know, and
one of the major problems also
out there, and it just made
me think that, you know,
when you feed your pet bad food,
and you combine the chemicals
in the flea and tick collars,
all of that together causes
other problems in the pet
that you then have to treat.
For example, bad food causes
severe dental problems
in cats and dogs.
Cats and dogs in a natural state
shouldn't really have dental
problems because they're
chewing up the bones
and the bone marrow
and all that stuff.
But right now, you see
an increase in that.
And not only that, you also
are seeing a massive increase
in hyperthyroidism in cats
and hypothyroidism in dogs.
And that's because of
the iodine deficiency.
And so one of the ways
that you can remedy
that real effectively is with
giving your pet some kelp powder
or using a detoxified nascent
iodine and giving them,
you know, let's say 4 or 5
drops a couple times a week.
And that iodine will prevent you
from having to have your pets
on thyroid medications for the
rest of their life because --
>> Mike: Exactly.
>> Dr. Group: Look, once
your pet is on medications,
they're never off medications.
Just like the human, you know?
It doesn't address the
root cause of the problem.
It addresses the
symptoms of the problem.
>> Mike: That's the business
model of the drug companies.
Keep your pet sick.
Keep you sick.
Keep you buying overpriced
health insurance.
Keep you buying pharmaceuticals
over and over again.
Before I put this away, this
flea, this chemical flea collar,
I just want to read this.
It has a poison warning.
Call a poison center or a doctor
immediately for treatment advice
if you swallow part of this.
So, you know, that's a
pretty good sign right there.
If you have to have a poison
center warning on something
that your dog is going to wear
around their neck, really?
Then that's way too toxic.
So avoid that.
>> Dr. Group: And then not
only that, but you know,
if you have kids
around the house
and your kids are sitting
there touching your dog.
The dog is sleeping on your kids
and you have all that chemicals
that could possibly be
coming into your kids' skin.
>> Mike: Yeah, right.
>> Dr. Group: And another thing
is that the toxic shampoos
and the toxic conditioners.
I mean,
people for pets, you have
shampoos for curly-haired dogs.
You have shampoos,
whitening shampoos.
You have all these different
types of chemical-based shampoos
and conditioners for dogs
that leave a film on the hair.
>> Mike: Oh, they're terrible.
>> Dr. Group: And then
dogs and cats shed.
And then you have the
sheddings all over the floor
and everything, which are
just more toxic compounds.
>> Mike: And they're loaded
with fragrance chemicals.
I don't know why when people
take their dogs to, you know,
a pet store to be groomed.
Every time they come back they
smell like a perfume bomb.
I guess a lot of consumers think
that that means they're clean.
No. They have been poisoned
with that fragrance.
Think about it.
Dogs and cats, they have
a greatly enhanced sense
of smell compared to humans.
So to them, that's
a like a bomb.
That's like a gas
attack on them.
But owners are subjecting
their pets to that unknowingly.
If you take your
pet to a groomer,
make sure they use
fragrance-free shampoos
or other cleaning products.
>> Dr. Group: Or just
use them yourself.
I mean, here's a couple
good organic shampoos.
These are for humans,
but I mean,
they're completely safe
to use on pets, too.
It's the Max Green
Alchemy brand.
This is the one that I use.
And I love it.
So I use that on my dog as well.
But another thing you
can do for the teeth
of the dog is iodine --
also is great for the teeth.
And one mistake people
make, Mike,
is they actually brush
their teeth of the dog
with fluoride-based toothpaste.
>> Mike: Oh, really.
>> Dr. Group: And fluoride is
extremely damaging to animals.
And it can poison
animals really fast.
>> Mike: Absolutely.
>> Dr. Group: Another
thing we didn't talk about.
We talk about this all
the time, is tap water.
Feeding your dog and
your cat tap water.
You ever notice, you know,
I talk to some people
and they say, well my dog
won't drink the water.
But then he goes outside and
drinks water from the puddles.
And they're saying, well here
I'm giving my dog clean water
and they're going out and
drinking that dirty water.
>> Mike: No, rainwater is
cleaner than the city water.
>> Dr. Group: Exactly.
They actually know that
there's chlorine and fluoride
and arsenic and lead and all the
other stuff in the tap water.
I mean, dogs and cats
have a sixth sense.
I mean, they actually
know a lot more
than what we think they know.
>> Mike: Hey, let's talk
about costs here for a second
because a lot of people are
suffering under the illusion
that it costs more
money to treat your pet
with natural products.
Not necessarily true.
Take this DE for example,
diatomaceous earth.
At any feed store you can
buy massive bags of DE,
35 pound, 50 pound bags.
And you can use it on your
garden for organic gardening.
It gets rid of insects and
pests and aphids on, you know,
salad greens and
things like that.
You can use it on
your dog by mixing
in some essential oils with it.
You can even use it around your
house as a natural insecticide.
There's so many different
uses for it.
And it's dirt cheap.
I mean, it's literally mined out
of the earth kind of like dirt.
It's super cheap.
And it has a multitude of uses.
So don't think you
have to spend a fortune
to treat your pets
in a healthy way.
It can actually be cheaper
than buying the chemicals.
>> Dr. Group: The most expensive
part about pets are taking them
in because they're
sick all the time.
>> Mike: Right.
>> Dr. Group: And, you know,
what you could do is you
could prevent yourself
from spending thousands
and thousands and thousands
of dollars by just spending
and taking a little bit of time
to make sure your pet
is eating healthy.
Mike, I just had someone
on the phone the other day
that spent $4000 on the
first round of chemotherapy
for their dog to go through
because of the tumors.
>> Mike: Oh, really.
>> Dr. Group: And
cancer is a huge problem
with pets right now.
So what we're trying to tell you
here is it's time to prevent --
>> Mike: Absolutely.
>> Dr. Group: -- disease.
It's all about prevention,
you know?
Don't spend the rest of
your life taking your dog in
and having a sick
dog and a sick cat
when you can easily reduce
the amount of toxins,
disease-causing agents
coming in and making sure
that your pet is healthy.
>> Mike: You know, it's
just like with humans.
If you spend a little bit of
money up front on prevention
and nutrition, then you're not
going to have to spend a fortune
on the backend on disease
treatment, cancer, chemotherapy,
psychiatric drugs, you name it.
You know, it's just
keep it simple.
Keep it natural.
And your pets will
thank you for it.
>> Dr. Group: Take care
of your pets today.
Thank you.
>> Mike: Thank you.
[ Music ]